docs: document how to write create new keptnmetricsprovider (#2939)
keptn/lifecycle-toolkit: docs/docs/contribute/software/add-new-metric-provider.md

To create a provider for the dummy endpoint, follow these steps:

1. Fork the [Keptn repo](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit)

2. **Define the Provider Type:** In the `metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers/common.go` file,
 define the constant `KeptnDummyProviderType` with the value `"dummy"`.

    ```go
    const KeptnDummyProviderType = "dummy"
    ```

3. **Implement the Provider:** Create your own new folder inside the
[metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/tree/main/metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers)
 matching the new service name: dummy and a new Go package for the dummy provider.
  This package should contain
 a struct that implements the `KeptnSLIProvider` interface.
  To fully implement the `KeptnSLIProvider` interface, it's necessary to implement the following functions.
  `EvaluateQuery`(Fetches metric values from the dummy provider)
   - This function fetches metric values based on the provided
     metric query from the dummy provider.
     It evaluates the query and returns the metric values
     along with any additional data if required.

>   `EvaluateQueryForStep`(Fetches metric values with step interval from the dummy provider)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `EvaluateQueryForStep`(Fetches metric values with step interval from the provider)
```

Reviewer: I would not write dummy in this sections it is true for any interface

Author: True

4. **Instantiate the Provider:** In the `providers.NewProvider` function
 in the `metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers/provider.go` file,
 add a case for the `KeptnDummyProviderType`.
  Instantiate the dummy provider struct and return it.

    ```go
    // Inside the providers package

    // NewProvider function
    func NewProvider(providerType string, log logr.Logger, k8sClient client.Client) (KeptnSLIProvider, error) {
        switch strings.ToLower(providerType) {
        case KeptnDummyProviderType:
            return &dummy.KeptnDummyProvider{
                Log:        log,
                HttpClient: http.Client{},
            }, nil
        // Other cases...
        }
    }
    ```

5. **Update validation webhook and crd config:** To update the validation webhook and crd config of the metrics operator.

   Add the provider name next to last provider in this
   [line](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/metrics-operator/api/v1beta1/keptnmetricsprovider_types.go#L29)
   to look like this `// +kubebuilder:validation:Pattern:=prometheus|dynatrace|datadog|dql|dummy`.

>    In the metric-operator directory run `make manifests` to update the metrics-operator crd config

Reviewer: you forgot to mention to modify the helm chart crd  validation

Author: I did I will add it to the step.

# Adding a New Metrics Provider for Dummy Endpoint

To create a provider for the dummy endpoint, follow these steps:

1. Fork the [Keptn repo](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit)

2. **Define the Provider Type:** In the `metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers/common.go` file,

>  define the constant `KeptnDummyProviderType` with the value `"dummy"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 define the constant `KeptnDummyProviderType` with the value `"placeholder"`.
```

Create a new Go package for the placeholder provider in that folder.
  This package should contain
 a `struct` that implements the `KeptnSLIProvider` interface.
  To fully implement the `KeptnSLIProvider` interface, it's necessary to implement the following functions.
  `EvaluateQuery`(Fetches metric values from the provider)
   - This function fetches metric values based on the provided
     metric query from the provider.
     It evaluates the query and returns the metric values
     along with any additional data if required.
   - It takes as input a [KeptnMetric]
   (<https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/metrics-operator/api/v1beta1/keptnmetric_types.go>)
   and [KeptnMetricsProvider](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/metrics-operator/api/v1beta1/keptnmetricsprovider_types.go)
  `EvaluateQueryForStep`(Fetches metric values with step interval from the provider)
   - This function fetches metric values with a specified step interval from the placeholder provider.
      It takes into account the metric query and the step interval provided, executes the query,
      and returns the metric values along with any additional data if required.

>    - It takes as input a [KeptnMetric]
>    (<https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/metrics-operator/api/v1beta1/keptnmetric_types.go>)
>    and [KeptnMetricsProvider](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/metrics-operator/api/v1beta1/keptnmetricsprovider_types.go)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - It takes as input a [KeptnMetric]
   (<https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/metrics-operator/api/v1beta1/keptnmetric_types.go>)
   resource and a
   [KeptnMetricsProvider](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/metrics-operator/api/v1beta1/keptnmetricsprovider_types.go)
   resource
```
These should like to the CRD reference pages rather than the github source file.  When referencing a resource that does not have a CRD reference page (because the user does not have to populate it), you should link to the appropriate location in the API reference documention.

  `FetchAnalysisValue`(Fetches analysis values from the provider) functions.
   - This function fetches analysis values based on the provided query and time range from the
     provider.
     It evaluates the query within the specified time range and returns the analysis
     values along with any additional data if required.

>    - It takes as input a `query`, [Analysis]
>    (<https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/metrics-operator/api/v1beta1/analysis_types.go>) and [KeptnMetricsProvider](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/metrics-operator/api/v1beta1/keptnmetricsprovider_types.go)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - It takes as input an
    [Analysis]
   (<https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/metrics-operator/api/v1beta1/analysis_types.go>)
   resource that contains a `query` and a
   [KeptnMetricsProvider](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/metrics-operator/api/v1beta1/keptnmetricsprovider_types.go)
   resource.
```
Again, these should link to the CRD ref pages for each resource.

  You can follow other existing implementations,
 such as [prometheus.go](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers/prometheus/prometheus.go),
 as an example.

>    **NB:** All 3 functions expects a string containing a float value in it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   **NB:** Each of the three functions expects a string containing a float value in it.
```
Or you could say "All of the three functions expect..." but "Each" is probably better.

  But for example purposes
           we returned some of the data accessible in the function.
  Below is an example of a placeholder provider implementation.

    ```go
    {% include "./assets/example-code/placeholder-code-example.go" %}
    ```

   **NB:** Ensure to refer to the documentation of
    [metrics](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/docs/docs/reference/crd-reference/metric.md)
    and [analysis](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/docs/docs/reference/crd-reference/analysis.md)

>     to understand what data should be retrieved from the methods inputs to compute accurate results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>  to understand what data should be retrieved from the methods inputs to compute accurate results.
```

> 4. **Instantiate the Provider:** In the `providers.NewProvider` function
>  in the `metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers/provider.go` file,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. **Instantiate the Provider** in the `providers.NewProvider` function
 in the `metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers/provider.go` file.
```

                Log:        log,
                HttpClient: http.Client{},
            }, nil
        // Other cases...
        }
    }
    ```

5. **Update validation webhook and crd config:** To update the validation webhook and crd config of the metrics operator.

   Add the provider name next to last providers on this
   [line](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/metrics-operator/api/v1beta1/keptnmetricsprovider_types.go#L29)
   to look like this `// +kubebuilder:validation:Pattern:=prometheus|dynatrace|datadog|dql|placeholder`.

   In the metric-operator directory run `make manifests` to update the metrics-operator crd config

   Then modify the helm chart and the helm chart crd validation to match the update in the metrics-operator crd config
  
6. **Add Test Cases:**

- Write a unit test to validate your implementation at the function level.
  Unit tests ensure that individual
 functions behave as expected and meet their functional requirements.

- Include a Chainsaw test to validate the behavior of Kubernetes resources managed by your code.
  Chainsaw tests simulate real-world scenarios and interactions within a Kubernetes cluster, ensuring

>   the correctness of your Kubernetes configurations and deployments.

Reviewer 3: Let's add another point here on how to add integration test and link the already existing integration test for any metrics provider

# Adding a New Metrics Provider for Placeholder Endpoint

> To create a provider for the placeholder endpoint, follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, we will create a placeholder provider. The following steps can be a starting point to create your own custom provider:
```

1. Fork the [Keptn repo](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit)

2. **Define the Provider Type:** In the `metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers/common.go` file,

>  define the constant `KeptnPlaceholderProviderType` with the value `"placeholder"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 define the constant `KeptnPlaceholderProviderType`. In our example we use `"placeholder"`.
```

    ```go
    const KeptnPlaceholderProviderType = "placeholder"
    ```

3. **Implement the Provider:** Create your own new folder inside the
[metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/tree/main/metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers)

>  matching the new service name: placeholder and a new Go package for the placeholder provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 matching the new provider name: in our case placeholder and a new Go package for the placeholder provider.
```

  This package should contain
 a struct that implements the `KeptnSLIProvider` interface.
  To fully implement the `KeptnSLIProvider` interface, it's necessary to implement the following functions.
  `EvaluateQuery`(Fetches metric values from the provider)

>    - This function fetches metric values based on the provided

Reviewer: point to the analysis type and metrics type so people know what to expect as input. 

ex This takes as input a KeptnMetric (link)

Author: Alright

     metric query from the provider.
     It evaluates the query and returns the metric values
     along with any additional data if required.
  `EvaluateQueryForStep`(Fetches metric values with step interval from the provider)
   - This function fetches metric values with a specified step interval from the placeholder provider.
      It takes into account the metric query and the step interval provided, executes the query,
      and returns the metric values along with any additional data if required.
  `FetchAnalysisValue`(Fetches analysis values from the provider) functions.
   - This function fetches analysis values based on the provided query and time range from the
     provider.
     It evaluates the query within the specified time range and returns the analysis
     values along with any additional data if required.
  You can follow other existing implementations,
 such as [prometheus.go](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers/prometheus/prometheus.go),
 as an example.
  Below is an example of a placeholder provider implementation.

    ```go
    {% include "./placeholder-code-example.go" %}

>     ```

Reviewer: Specify that all 3 functions expect a string containing a float value in it. But for example purposes we return some of the data accessible in the function.

   Add the provider name next to last providers on this
   [line](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/metrics-operator/api/v1beta1/keptnmetricsprovider_types.go#L29)
   to look like this `// +kubebuilder:validation:Pattern:=prometheus|dynatrace|datadog|dql|placeholder`.

   In the metric-operator directory run `make manifests` to update the metrics-operator crd config

   Then modify the helm chart and the helm chart crd validation to match the update in the metrics-operator crd config
  
6. **Add Test Cases:**

  * Write a unit test to validate your implementation at the function level.
    Unit tests ensure that individual
    functions behave as expected and meet their functional requirements.

  * Include a Chainsaw test to validate the behavior of Kubernetes resources managed by your code.
    Chainsaw tests simulate real-world scenarios and interactions within a Kubernetes cluster, ensuring
    the correctness of your Kubernetes configurations and deployments.

    Below are the steps for adding an integration test.
      * In the directory `test/chainsaw/testmetrics`, create a folder `metrics-placeholder` in our case.

>       * create both the goodmetrics to test right configuration and the badmetrics for wrong configuration.

Reviewer 3: This is not true, this test is testing the correctness of the KeptnMetric, not the provider

Author: Alright I will update the steps

Author: Done i have updated the steps

> # Adding a New Metrics Provider for Placeholder Endpoint

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---
comments: true
---

# Adding a New Metrics Provider for Placeholder Endpoint
```
This is required so readers can leave comments for the page.

Author: Alright

comments: true
---

# Add a metrics provider endpoint

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The
[KeptnMetric](../../../guides/evaluatemetrics.md)
feature works with almost any data platform
but Keptn requires that a metrics provider be defined
for any data platform it uses as a data source.
```
You need to provide the reader with just a bit of context for this page.  I suggested some prose but feel free to alter it.  And check that I coded that xref correctly since I can't test it from my suggestion.

> The following steps can be a starting point to create your own custom provider:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following steps are a starting point to create your own custom provider:
```

In this guide, we will create a placeholder provider.

> The following steps are a starting point to create your own custom provider:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The steps to create your own metrics provider are:
```

> 1. Fork the [Keptn repo](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Fork and clone the [Keptn repo](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit)
```
Add a reference to https://keptn.sh/stable/docs/contribute/general/git/fork-clone/ -- so something like "See <link> for details" or "more information" or whatever.

Author: Alright

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD007 -->

> 1. Fork and clone the [Keptn repo](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit)
>   for more information [checkout this link](https://keptn.sh/stable/docs/contribute/general/git/fork-clone/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Fork and clone** the
[Keptn repository](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit).
 For more information, see
 [Fork and clone the repository](https://keptn.sh/stable/docs/contribute/general/git/fork-clone/).
```
This needs to be two sentences.  And you bold the short name of the other steps so let's be consistent here.

2. **Define the Provider Type:** In the `metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers/common.go` file,
 define the constant `KeptnPlaceholderProviderType`.
  In our example we use `"placeholder"`.

    ```go
    const KeptnPlaceholderProviderType = "placeholder"
    ```

> 3. **Implement the Provider:** Create your own new folder inside the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. **Implement the Provider:** Create a new folder inside the
```

>    [metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers](<https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/tree/main/metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers>),
>    matching the new provider name (`placeholder` in our example).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   [metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers](<https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/tree/main/metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers>).
 Use the provider name as the name of the folder.
 This name defines the string used to identify this provider
 in the `spec.type` field of the
 [KeptnMetricsProvider](../../../reference/crd-reference/metricsprovider.md)
 resource.
 In this example, the folder is named `placeholder`.
```

          It takes into account the metric query and the step interval provided, executes the query,
          and returns the metric values along with any additional data if required.
        * It takes as input a [KeptnMetric](../../reference/crd-reference/metric.md)
          and [KeptnMetricsProvider](../../reference/crd-reference/metricsprovider.md)
      * `FetchAnalysisValue`(Fetches analysis values from the provider) functions.
        * This function fetches analysis values based on the provided query and time range from the
          provider.
          It evaluates the query within the specified time range and returns the analysis
          values along with any additional data if required.
        * It takes as input an [Analysis](../../reference/crd-reference/analysis.md),
          resource that contains a `query` and a
          [KeptnMetricsProvider](../../reference/crd-reference/metricsprovider.md) resource.

   You can follow other existing implementations,
   such as [prometheus.go](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers/prometheus/prometheus.go),
   as an example.

>    **NB:** Each of the three functions expects a string containing a float value in it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each of the three functions expects a string containing a float value in it.
```
No need for the "NB".  However, this should be nested under list item #3.  The fact that it isn't is probably why the next step is numbered 1 rather than 4.

I do see the issue -- the code example has some long lines so it is nice to have it start at the left margin.  One thought is to pull the provider implementation and instantiation case out of the list of steps then create level-2 sections -- something like "## Example provider implementation" and ##Example instantiation case" -- and put those after the list of steps.  This also has the advantage of putting them in a page contents list in the right frame so the reader can quickly jump to them.  Then the steps in the list can have the content they currently have and end with a link to the section that has the example.

Author: The suggestion didn't work as `markdown-fix` keeps returning level-2 sections to the beginning of the line.

Reviewer 2: Yes, it SHOULD return Level 2 headers to the left margin and reset the automatic numbering.    That is why I suggested putting them in Level 2 sections that are after all the numbered steps.  You can put a link to each example in the step.

   But for example purposes we returned some of the data accessible in the function.
   Below is an example of a placeholder provider implementation.

    ```go
       {% include "./assets/example-code/placeholder-code-example.go" %}
    ```

   > **Note** Refer to the documentation of the
   > [KeptnMetric](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/docs/docs/reference/crd-reference/metric.md)
   > and

>    > [Analysis](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/docs/docs/reference/crd-reference/analysis.md)

Reviewer 2: These should be relative links to these pages.  Check out some of the other docs if you aren't sure how to xref other pages in the docs.

Author: I thought i already did that.
I will check it again.

> # Adding a New Metrics Provider for Dummy Endpoint

Reviewer 4: to have the file show up on the docs site, you'll need to add it to the `nav` section in the `mkdocs.yml` config file at the root of the repo

Author: Alright let me do that.

To create a provider for the dummy endpoint, follow these steps:

> 1. Fork [this repo](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Fork the [Keptn repo](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit)
```

2. **Define the Provider Type:** In the `metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers/common.go` file,
 define the constant `KeptnDummyProviderType` with the value `"dummy"`.

    ```go
    const KeptnDummyProviderType = "dummy"
    ```

> 3. **Implement the Provider:** Create your own new folder inside
> [this folder](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/tree/main/metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. **Implement the Provider:** Create your own new folder inside the
[metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/tree/main/metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers)
```

      ```go
      {% include "./assets/example-code/placeholder-code-example.go" %}
      ```

      > **Note** Refer to the documentation of the
      > [KeptnMetric](../../reference/crd-reference/metric.md)
      > and
      > [Analysis](../../reference/crd-reference/analysis.md)
      > resources
      > to understand what data should be retrieved from the methods inputs to compute accurate results.

4. **Instantiate the Provider** in the `providers.NewProvider` function
   in the `metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers/provider.go` file.
   add a case for the `KeptnPlaceholderProviderType`.
   Instantiate the placeholder provider struct and return it.

    ```go
    {% include "./assets/example-code/new-provider-function.go" %}
    ```

5. **Update the validation webhook and crd config:** To update the validation webhook and crd config of the metrics operator.
   Add the provider name next to last providers on this
   [line](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/metrics-operator/api/v1beta1/keptnmetricsprovider_types.go#L29)
   to look like this

    `// +kubebuilder:validation:Pattern:=prometheus|dynatrace|datadog|dql|placeholder`.

>      In the metric-operator directory run `make manifests` to update the metrics-operator crd config

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     In the metric-operator directory run `make generate manifests` to update the metrics-operator crd config
```

     Then modify the helm chart and the helm chart crd validation to match the update in the metrics-operator crd config
  
6. **Add Test Cases:**
     * Write a unit test to validate your implementation at the function level.
       Unit tests ensure that individual
       functions behave as expected and meet their functional requirements.

     * Include a Chainsaw test to validate the behavior of Kubernetes resources managed by your code.
       Chainsaw tests simulate real-world scenarios and interactions within a Kubernetes cluster, ensuring
       the correctness of your Kubernetes configurations and deployments.

>          **NB:** For testing the metricsprovider a single KeptnMetric and KeptnMetricsProvider is needed
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

---
comments: true
---

# Adding a New Metrics Provider for Placeholder Endpoint

In this guide, we will create a placeholder provider.
The following steps are a starting point to create your own custom provider:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD029 -->

> <!-- markdownlint-disable MD007 -->

Reviewer 3: why is this needed ? Let's rather fix the problems than adding md linter ignorers

Author: @StackScribe is their a way for us to remove the md linter ignorers completely?

Reviewer 2: I think @mowies fixed the linters so that it is no longer necessary to disable them -- and after you went to all that trouble!  Try removing them and look at the rendered text to be sure that it is correct.

Author: Alright I will create a separate PR for this.

   Then modify the helm chart and the helm chart crd validation to match the update in the metrics-operator crd config
  
6. **Add Test Cases:**

  * Write a unit test to validate your implementation at the function level.
      Unit tests ensure that individual
      functions behave as expected and meet their functional requirements.

  * Include a Chainsaw test to validate the behavior of Kubernetes resources managed by your code.
      Chainsaw tests simulate real-world scenarios and interactions within a Kubernetes cluster, ensuring
      the correctness of your Kubernetes configurations and deployments.

      Below are the steps for adding an integration test.
    * In the directory `test/chainsaw/testmetrics`, create a folder `keptn-metrics-validation` in our case.
    * Within the `keptn-metrics-validation` folder, create three YAML files `00-install.yaml`, `goodmetrics.yaml`
          and `badmetrics.yaml`.
      * `00-install.yaml` contains a sample configuration that installs a valid `KeptnMetricsProvider`
            in our case `placeholder`.
      * `goodmetrics.yaml` define a sample `KeptnMetric` configuration representing a valid use case, while

>       * `badmetrics.yaml` define a sample `KeptnMetric` configuration containing errors or incorrect values.

Reviewer 3: we are speaking about metrics provider on this page, why is it needed to test the validation of KeptnMetric resources?

Author: Alright I will update the doc

---
comments: true
---

# Adding a New Metrics Provider for Placeholder Endpoint

In this guide, we will create a placeholder provider.
The following steps are a starting point to create your own custom provider:

1. Fork and clone the [Keptn repo](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit)
  for more information [checkout this link](https://keptn.sh/stable/docs/contribute/general/git/fork-clone/)

2. **Define the Provider Type:** In the `metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers/common.go` file,
 define the constant `KeptnPlaceholderProviderType`.
  In our example we use `"placeholder"`.

    ```go
    const KeptnPlaceholderProviderType = "placeholder"
    ```

3. **Implement the Provider:** Create your own new folder inside the
[metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/tree/main/metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers),

>  matching the new provider name: in our case placeholder and a new Go package for the placeholder provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 matching the new provider name
 (`placeholder` in our example).
Create a new Go package for the placeholder provider in that folder.
```
Something like this

  This package should contain

>  a struct that implements the `KeptnSLIProvider` interface.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 a `struct` that implements the `KeptnSLIProvider` interface.
```

  To fully implement the `KeptnSLIProvider` interface, it's necessary to implement the following functions.

>   `EvaluateQuery`(Fetches metric values from the provider)

Reviewer 2: The list of functions needs to be an unordered list beginning here.  And the coding for that is a little tricky with our new tools -- writing that up is the next thing on my list.  Basically, you need to indent 3 spaces in from the text that precedes it and turn off markdownlint for the list.  Let me quickly write up that piece of my doc and push it so you can follow it.  And then I'll come back and review the rest of this.

Very nice job on the documentation, BTW.  It has a good, logical flow.  Kudos!

Author: Thanks 🙂

      ```go
        {% include "./assets/example-code/placeholder-code-example.go" %}
      ```

      > **Note** Refer to the documentation of the
      > [KeptnMetric](../../reference/crd-reference/metric.md)
      > and
      > [Analysis](../../reference/crd-reference/analysis.md)
      > resources
      > to understand what data should be retrieved from the methods inputs to compute accurate results.

4. **Instantiate the Provider** in the `providers.NewProvider` function
   in the `metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers/provider.go` file.
   add a case for the `KeptnPlaceholderProviderType`.
   Instantiate the placeholder provider struct and return it.

    ```go
    // Inside the providers package

    // NewProvider function
    func NewProvider(providerType string, log logr.Logger, k8sClient client.Client) (KeptnSLIProvider, error) {
        switch strings.ToLower(providerType) {
        case KeptnPlaceholderProviderType:
            return &placeholder.KeptnPlaceholderProvider{
                Log:        log,
                HttpClient: http.Client{},
            }, nil
        // Other cases...
        }

>     }

Reviewer 3: Please move this code snippet to a separate file and link it via include (same as done [here](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/pull/2939/files#diff-d41d4c55a5a07b73a44c5db5a01e826b0a59ee530fcd12d7fa646d7e2b413759R75))

Author: Alright

   Add the provider name next to last providers on this
   [line](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/metrics-operator/api/v1beta1/keptnmetricsprovider_types.go#L29)
   to look like this

    `// +kubebuilder:validation:Pattern:=prometheus|dynatrace|datadog|dql|placeholder`.

     In the metric-operator directory run `make manifests` to update the metrics-operator crd config
     Then modify the helm chart and the helm chart crd validation to match the update in the metrics-operator crd config
  
6. **Add Test Cases:**
     * Write a unit test to validate your implementation at the function level.
       Unit tests ensure that individual
       functions behave as expected and meet their functional requirements.

     * Include a Chainsaw test to validate the behavior of Kubernetes resources managed by your code.
       Chainsaw tests simulate real-world scenarios and interactions within a Kubernetes cluster, ensuring
       the correctness of your Kubernetes configurations and deployments.

         **NB:** For testing the metricsprovider a single KeptnMetric and KeptnMetricsProvider is needed

        Below are the steps for adding an integration test.

>         * In the directory `test/chainsaw/testmetrics`, create a folder `keptn-metrics-validation` in our case.

Reviewer 3: Why the test should be called validation? It seems like you want to validate something, but that's not true

Author: what do you suggest i call it?

Reviewer 3: metrics-provider-placeholder

Author: Alright.

        * Within the `keptn-metrics-validation` folder, create three YAML files `00-install.yaml`, `goodmetrics.yaml`
          and `badmetrics.yaml`.
          * `00-install.yaml` contains a sample configuration that installs a valid `KeptnMetricsProvider`
              in our case `placeholder`.
          * `goodmetrics.yaml` define a sample `KeptnMetric` configuration representing a valid use case, while

>           * `badmetrics.yaml` define a sample `KeptnMetric` configuration containing errors or incorrect values.

Reviewer 3: Why are these resources needed ?

Author: For the integration to install both the good and the bad `KeptnMetric` configuration.

Reviewer 3: why are KeptnMetric resources needed to be tested, when we are speaking about KeptnMetricsProvider?

Author: To test that `KeptnMetricsProvider` is working properly we need to install the `KeptnMetric` from there we query the metrics from in the `KeptnMetricsProvider`

Reviewer 3: but why are good and bad metrics needed to be tested? A single (and correct) KeptnMetric resource is enough

Author: I have updated the docs with suggest a single correct `KeptnMetric` resource.

        * Create a file named `chainsaw-test.yaml` and define the steps for the integration test in chainsaw-test.yaml.

>         > For more information checkout [an already existing integration test](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/tree/main/test/chainsaw/testmetrics/metrics)

Reviewer 3: This is not the proper test that should be linked here. In the same folder we have a test called `metrics-provider` which is more suitable

Author: Alright I will update the doc

---
comments: true
---

> # Add a metrics provider endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Add a metrics provider
```

To create a provider for the dummy endpoint, follow these steps:

1. Fork the [Keptn repo](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit)

2. **Define the Provider Type:** In the `metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers/common.go` file,
 define the constant `KeptnDummyProviderType` with the value `"dummy"`.

    ```go
    const KeptnDummyProviderType = "dummy"
    ```

3. **Implement the Provider:** Create your own new folder inside the
[metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/tree/main/metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers)
 matching the new service name: dummy and a new Go package for the dummy provider.
  This package should contain
 a struct that implements the `KeptnSLIProvider` interface.
  You can follow other existing implementations,
 such as [prometheus.go](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers/prometheus/prometheus.go),
 as an example.
  Ensure that you implement the `EvaluateQuery` function to fetch the metrics accurately.
  In the implementation, make a request to the dummy endpoint and return the response.

>     ```go

Author: Alright

# Adding a New Metrics Provider for Dummy Endpoint

To create a provider for the dummy endpoint, follow these steps:

1. Fork the [Keptn repo](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit)

2. **Define the Provider Type:** In the `metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers/common.go` file,
 define the constant `KeptnDummyProviderType` with the value `"dummy"`.

    ```go
    const KeptnDummyProviderType = "dummy"
    ```

3. **Implement the Provider:** Create your own new folder inside the
[metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/tree/main/metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers)
 matching the new service name: dummy and a new Go package for the dummy provider.
  This package should contain
 a struct that implements the `KeptnSLIProvider` interface.
  You can follow other existing implementations,
 such as [prometheus.go](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers/prometheus/prometheus.go),
 as an example.

>   Ensure that you implement the `EvaluateQuery` function to fetch the metrics accurately.

Reviewer: This sentence is easy to misunderstand, to implement the entire KeptnSLIProvider interface one would also have to 
write the functions `EvaluateQueryForStep` and `FetchAnalysisValue ` It would be nice to add a file here with dummy function with a panic 

something like 

```
type MyProvider struct{}

func (p *MyProvider)  EvaluateQuery(ctx context.Context, metric metricsapi.KeptnMetric, provider metricsapi.KeptnMetricsProvider) (string, []byte, error){
	//TODO implement me
	panic("implement me")
}
func (p *MyProvider)  EvaluateQueryForStep(ctx context.Context, metric metricsapi.KeptnMetric, provider metricsapi.KeptnMetricsProvider) ([]string, []byte, error){
  //TODO implement me
	panic("implement me")
}
func (p *MyProvider)  FetchAnalysisValue(ctx context.Context, query string, spec metricsapi.Analysis, provider *metricsapi.KeptnMetricsProvider) (string, error){
	//TODO implement me
	panic("implement me")
}
```

Author: That's true.
I will update the doc

Reviewer: What is also important for the tutorial is to explain when those 3 methods are called and what does Keptn expect to happen, so at least explaining what will be done with the output of each method

  In the implementation, make a request to the dummy endpoint and return the response.

    ```go
    {% include "./dummy-code-example.go" %}
    ```

4. **Instantiate the Provider:** In the `providers.NewProvider` function
 in the `metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers/provider.go` file,
 add a case for the `KeptnDummyProviderType`.
  Instantiate the dummy provider struct and return it.

    ```go
    // Inside the providers package

    // NewProvider function
    func NewProvider(providerType string, log logr.Logger, k8sClient client.Client) (KeptnSLIProvider, error) {
        switch strings.ToLower(providerType) {
        case KeptnDummyProviderType:
            return &dummy.KeptnDummyProvider{
                Log:        log,
                HttpClient: http.Client{},
            }, nil
        // Other cases...
        }
    }
    ```

> 5. **Add Test Cases:** Write test cases to validate your implementation and ensure it works correctly.

Reviewer: what is the difference between point 5 and 6? I would specify here to add both unit tests and kuttl tests and maybe point to docs or code examples

Reviewer: I would expect a simple code example of both kind of tests in the docs

Author: Alright

1. Fork the [Keptn repo](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit)

2. **Define the Provider Type:** In the `metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers/common.go` file,
 define the constant `KeptnDummyProviderType` with the value `"dummy"`.

    ```go
    const KeptnDummyProviderType = "dummy"
    ```

3. **Implement the Provider:** Create your own new folder inside the
[metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/tree/main/metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers)
 matching the new service name: dummy and a new Go package for the dummy provider.
  This package should contain
 a struct that implements the `KeptnSLIProvider` interface.
  To fully implement the `KeptnSLIProvider` interface, it's necessary to implement the
  `EvaluateQuery`, `EvaluateQueryForStep` and `FetchAnalysisValue` functions.
  You can follow other existing implementations,
 such as [prometheus.go](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/blob/main/metrics-operator/controllers/common/providers/prometheus/prometheus.go),
 as an example.
  Below is an example of a dummy provider implementation.

    ```go

>     {% include "./dummy-code-example.go" %}

Reviewer: togheter with the dummy code with the strings we are working on, here I would also spend a few words explaining what is the use of each function. Especially important is to refer to the documentation of metrics and analysis, to hel the user understand what they should retrieve from the methods inputs to compute their results :)
